Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
I expect it to say "Greetings!" because of the command print. I'm not entirely sure what will happen with the input because it's been awhile since I've worked with these commands. 

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 
I'm not entirely sure? I answered the question with my favorite color, hit enter and then it seems to have acknowledged the input. 
What do you think the program did with what you typed?
Stored the info maybe?

Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
Main2.py is different from main1.py because it says to print the color. This means it will display a color, probably what I inputed. 

What do you think the color = input() will do? 
It's defining color as input() so whatever color is defined as, in this case input, will be printed. 

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Yes kind of. It responded like color was the expected input, and then it would print the input. 

Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
Main3.py is an if then statement which basically requires the user to input an answer and if that answer equals the correct color then you get the printed response affirming your input. If you're wrong, then you get the "else" value which will supply the user with a different response. 

What is happening on lines 11–14? 
If-then statement

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
For readability or just to indicate its correlated to the above line?

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
It says its incorrect because capitalization matters in code. R and r are different characters. 

What does this tell you about "color"?
Color is just a string of characters. The computer doesn't actually know all of the colors. 

Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
This program is set up to recognize Red and red

What problem is this trying to solve? 
human error/make it smoother as a program

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
It will not recognize the term because it hasn't been specified. 

Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do?
lower is probably referring to lower case so maybe just perceive all characters as lower case?

What problem is it trying to solve? 
eliminate the capitalization issue

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?
It won't recognize them/ says its wrong

Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
line 11 includes the command of .strip()

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
I think .strip() breaks down the input so its not dependent on the placement of the order of the letters.

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?
It's only getting rid of the spaces issue so if you change the letter order, put in spaces between characters or any of that, it will say it's a wrong answer. 

Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 
If I type in pink, I will receive the line "Close!"

What is the purpose of line 11? 
Line 11 is an elif statement that acts as a nother output to input response. 

Run the program and answer the question.
I answered pink, and I was right. 

Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
While means as long as the color doesn't equal red, the program will run again and give you another chance to answer correctly. Once you answer red, it will stop. 

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
Because it's following a new command - readability

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
The input question wouldn't prompt each time probably.

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.
It answers my input and continues to run the program so it doesn't stop printing the same line.

Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
Line 12 is still the while red isn't inputed statement but now the while function has a count function thrown in.

What is the purpose of “count”? 
Count will count how many tries it takes to guess the right answer.

What is happening on line 22? 
Line 22 is the statement that follows the completion of the while loop. So basically when you guess "red", you get a statement stating how many tries it took to guess it. 

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?
yes.